this almost killed me and it's killed
hundreds and thousands of women if men's
were falling off there would be a
resolution tomorrow until something's
done I won't quit
Lauren wasser model activist and
Survivor of one of the deadliest
diseases caused by a product millions of
women use today resulting in losing both
of her legs
October 3rd 2012
can you take me to that day it was just
on my period it was super heavy and I
guess I must have passed out they found
me face down on my bedroom floor toxic
shock syndrome caused by a tampon and I
was 10 minutes from death
I had two heart attacks my kidneys my
organs were failing my feet were turning
black so when I finally woke up they
needed to amputate my right leg or I was
going to die but they're telling me that
we cannot give you any pain medicine I I
felt every single thing that was done to
me
so those eight months I was alone every
day I was throwing screaming crying
wanting to like think about ways I could
kill myself
but there was something in my soul was
like don't pull the trigger
foreign
just hold on
are you feeling a sense of Injustice
this shouldn't have happened but there's
nothing on the market for women that is
safe for us it kills us this is my new
beginning Lauren what can be done that's
the scary part
I have to give you a warning this
conversation is not easy to listen to
because it's so deeply moving but it's
important that you do it's important
that more people know about the risks
that they face by the products they use
every single day and it's important that
people hear Lauren Ross's unimaginable
story a story that will change your mind
break your heart and then put it back
together again toxic shock syndrome is
probably something you've never heard of
before but it can affect anyone at any
time men women and children of all ages
[Music]
Lauren
what do I need to know about your
earliest years
to understand how you were
shaped molded the perspective that you
inherited from that early context and
environment
I think the idea of perfection the idea
that physically
looking like that one percent and being
I guess back then to being a supermodel
in the late 80s 90s that's kind of like
the cool era and that's kind of where
me being around all these women that
were just Flawless and beautiful
um kind of set the tone and also saw
like
you can get away with anything if you're
beautiful as well which was interesting
to me but I was the complete opposite
like I am a tomboy I played basketball
as my first love that's where I I think
really molded and shaped who I am as a
person and why I honestly I think I'm
alive I think having to have the
dedication have the
determination but also like have to
show up every single day and give it
your all
um
was something that I didn't really see
anywhere else like my dad wasn't there
my dad unfortunately he was he got
caught up in the whole drug scene
um complete drug addict
um
basically saw him homeless on the side
of the street when I was younger like my
mom and I would be driving down Melrose
and my dad I would look out and be like
oh my God that's my dad
like on the side of the street because
he's homeless he was he was a big model
but you know Studio 54 that whole era
was obviously drug mostly drugs but my
mom was like
ahead of her career 21 years old
um 21 years old she had me at 21. he was
a big model wasn't she she was pretty
big she was a Stephanie Seymour and
Cindy Crawford and Naomi that whole era
you know um
kind of growing up and around that was
just kind of crazy to see
she wouldn't even leave the house
without wearing makeup or like looking
like top of the line whereas I don't
give a [__] like I'll just roll out of
bed and put on some basketball shorts
and vintage tea and be like cool I'm out
you know what if I'd ask you then say
you're 16 years old and I said what do
you want to be when you're older what
would you have responded to me oh I
thought I was going to be like the Maria
Sharapova of like the WNBA like I was I
was
I was set in stone wanting to be like
endorsements playing ball 24 7 travel
like that was my dream
like that's what I really wanted for
myself
to be a basketball player yeah
so that's why it's kind of like just the
irony of like the fact I don't have legs
anymore it's like just crazy to me
because I'm like I'm an athlete first
and foremost and like that is my
livelihood like that's what I know best
this movement is
going outside and going for a run you
know I mean even just
we all take for granted just walking in
the shower you know
so you're 24 when your life changes
October the 3rd 2012 you're 24 years old
can you take me to that day
when you woke up that day what was you
know what was if you can remember the
the plans you had for that day and
um and how that day unfolded
yeah I was uh 24.
probably the best day ever in my life
super healthy
um
my period has always been really heavy
so I've always had to use super
absorbent tampons
um but and my mom had told me about
toxic shock syndrome she told me
obviously how to use them properly
change them every three hours
um but on that specific day I
like any normal day was just on my
period it was super heavy and I ran out
of my tampon so I went and bought a new
box and
I just remember feeling
super sick like almost as if uh like the
flu it was October so flu season all of
my friends were getting sick and I had
to go to my friend's birthday that night
and it's just me and my blind cocker
spaniel at the time living in Santa
Monica so just her and I I changed my
tampon obviously
and I'm just laying there probably I
don't know 30 40 minutes I start feeling
even worse
and I'm like wow I'm really feeling sick
I'm texting my friends you know a couple
hours go by
change my tampon again so this is this
is the second time I've changed it
it's about now like I don't know 5 6 p.m
and I have to get ready to go to my
friend's birthday so I get in the shower
get myself together put another tampon
in
and as soon as I drive and I walk into
the venue all of my friends are in there
and they're just like dude you look so
sick and I felt it like I finally in
that moment felt like this like whole
wave of like
heat and also just something is not
right and I'm like yeah I think I should
probably just go home so I drive myself
back home my mom and I are super close
so we chat
every five minutes we're always in
communication and I was like yeah I'm
just feeling kind of unwell but I'm I'm
I think I'm okay and then I get to my
apartment and I'm just like really
really hot so I just take off all of my
clothes
and I just like lay on the floor with by
my bed with my dog
and I guess I must have passed out and
my mom frantically trying to like get in
contact with me and she can't get a hold
of me but she knew that I was feeling
ill
so she called
um the police to come by for a welfare
check
so I'm laying on I remember this because
I was laying on my my bedroom floor
and I just remember my blind Cocker
Spaniel
like literally on my chest and you know
what cocker spaniel like they're so
sweet and friendly and she was like
ferociously like barking at me to where
like I could feel her like breath and
her like spit almost
and she was just like so like adamant
about like getting me up like jumping on
me and stuff and then I hear like the
knock at the door and I hear police
police open up and I'm like what like
what's going on like why are the police
here so confused but at this time I was
already accumulating like 107 fever so I
was pretty much like
just not in any shape or form like
making any real decisions because I'm
just so discombobulated of like even
what's going on so I like throw on a
hoodie and I open the door and the cop
comes in and he looks at me and he's
like you're really sick and I'm like no
[__] you know like obviously and he
looks around my apartment and I think
like I didn't even have a chance to take
my dog out so I'm sure there was like
pee and whatever and
he's like um you're really sick you need
to call your mom and I'm like okay and
then he's like so I I plugged in my
phone and he just [__] left
the cop just left me
so then I like plug my phone in I text
him I'm like the cop just came
obviously I'm really sick but I think I
just have the flu and I mean he's a cop
so I think if there was any real
urgency he would take me to the
emergency room and at that point I'm in
Santa Monica and I'm living five minutes
from St Jones
like you could see St John's from my
balcony of my apartment yeah this
hospital that saved my life how long had
you been on the floor
probably a few hours
um
but she was like
after speaking to her clearly she has
that motherly instinct to be like
something doesn't sit well so I said
listen the cop just left obviously I
think I'm okay I just need to just leave
this off
and I'll call you in the morning and
that was the last we spoke obviously
that doesn't sit well with her so she
feels the need to get another welfare
check she gets her husband to drive her
she was just had surgery so she was
bedridden and she was living in
Riverside at the time which is like
it could take up to like an hour or two
to even get to me so she called all of
her friends all of my friends called the
police again to come to my apartment to
like see how I'm doing or get me help or
something
um so once she did that the cops came
again and it took them like 30 to 45
minutes to get inside of my apartment
and they found me face down on my
bedroom floor defecated basically myself
and everything around me I was dying I
was 10 minutes from death
they rushed me to St John's
and they were like why is this healthy
young 24 year old girl plummeting they
didn't get it and
thank God there was an infectious
disease doctor that was on call and he
said well does she have a tampon in and
once they located the tampon and they
sent it to the lab it came back as TSS
one and that's when they were able to
finally kind of get me stable and give
me the things that I that my body was
more susceptive to accepting at that
time because it was really grim and I
had two heart attacks my kidneys my
organs were failing
um they put me on life support I at 107
fever they
basically gave me a one percent chance
of even surviving
so TSS one
toxic shock syndrome caused by a tampon
it's because all these tampons feminine
hygiene products that are available for
women on the market right now if we were
to go look they have chlorine bleach
dioxin
all these synthetic fibers that we place
inside of us at such a delicate time
and that just gets in your bloodstream
and it slowly kills you
it's a gateway to everything and those
specific things are
so toxic
you know and then if you're using super
absorbent tampons the absorbency is
way more than just a normal one and even
if you use a cotton tampon it's still
sprayed with pesticides
so there's actually nothing on the
market for women that is safe for us
everything has something some sort of
chemical in it so so the you're in
hospital they've given you a one percent
chance of
of surviving of living and they've
they've told your family presumably that
your chance of survival is
you haven't well you have a 99 chance of
not surviving
do you know how your your family had
responded to that
there is a whole line around St John's
of like everyone that I knew to say
goodbye to me of course my family too
but like I'm from La like I
I've been around and know everyone and
to see that kind of response especially
during that to where like people are
actually coming to say their their
goodbyes and pay their respects is just
insane obviously I I don't know any of
that but that's that's just what I've
been told but
it's pretty crazy and I was you know in
a on life support fighting for my life
and
each moment was was very grim
you're in a coma yeah I wasn't I was on
live sport in a coma for like a week and
a half
have you
found out went on while you're in a coma
in terms of the treatments they were
giving you to try and keep you alive so
they gave me um they put me my whole
body full of fluids because the toxins
had taken over so they popped my body
full of like 100 pounds of fluid so when
I finally woke up
from from the coma I was 200 pounds so
like I'm tiny and I woke up and I was
just like I thought I literally just had
one of those nights where you just eat a
bunch of donuts and candy and ice cream
and I was just like is this what you
know I just I had no idea why I was
literally in and had tubes in my throat
and machines everywhere and my mom
obviously like sitting right beside me
and everyone freaking out that like I'm
awake
and but what degree am I awake like no
one specifically knew
how damaged or what severity it was
until I could actually like
be awake to to tell them more to show
them but
yeah I was really touch and go the rest
of your family your grandparents your
brother were they around yeah everyone
was all of my friends I mean it was it
was really to that point I mean my
godfather and my mom got a casket
they're gonna plan my funeral like it
was to that point of like
this girl probably will not make it
and it's a bacterial infection
yeah but it's it's it has nothing to do
with leaving your tampon in too long I
was changing my with the tampon as as
normal as I've always done as normal as
you should as normal as directed
um but again I think it's about
how toxic these tampons are and how they
sit in our bodies and you know it just
takes one of those those toxins to get
in our bloodstream and it starts that
kind of flu-like symptoms but that's so
vague it's so
um
yeah I just think that could mean so
many things and even now I would never
be able to differentiate oh yeah my
tampon is making me sick I would never
think that but now that I have all the
information and obviously knowing that
like I'm just The Lucky One That Got
Away With My Life
you know looking back on it I'm like wow
like that's it's crazy that that almost
killed me
and it's killed hundreds and thousands
of women
since the 80s the early 80s to now it's
still an epidemic that's never gone away
was it by chance that that particular
doctor was on call that day that asked
about does she have a tampon in oh I'm
so grateful because that that in itself
is a miracle that there was someone that
knows about toxic shock syndrome and you
know
understands the dangers and was there
and saw you know the symptoms that I was
obviously showing and had even the idea
to ask or to look or to you know
say this is this could be it this could
probably be why this girl's literally
dying right before us but it says a lot
that they would ask that question
it says that there's clearly a long
history of that being a causal factor
for illness if a doctor would even ask
that question
but the sad thing is there's a lot of it
goes misdiagnosed a lot of the time and
a lot of people just think it's it's
doesn't happen or it couldn't happen or
you know it was kind of swept under the
rug by tampon companies because it's a
billion dollar industry and you know no
one ever saw someone like myself
survive it and then being able to say
hey like this is this shouldn't be
happening like this almost killed me and
that's why I even shared my story to
begin with is because I wanted women and
I wanted the world to be aware that this
is something that
we shouldn't be taking lightly and that
we need to demand for safer products and
also demand like why is this still
happening and you know obviously then it
was 2012 but here we are 2023 and young
women and more than ever are in danger
I read that the doctors were telling
your mother to start praying that you
would stay alive
yeah and that the doctors were praying
I think everyone was praying it was it
was really dark it was like a
I feel so bad for my mom because I can't
even imagine to like what degree she
you know seeing me in that state and
then every moment is like you know this
machine's going off you know she's
literally sitting on a cot next to me
just staring and hoping that I I'd even
come to you know and you're my best
friend as well at that point yeah and it
yeah just probably was so hard
you start to wake up
yeah can you talk to me about what
happened from that point onwards when
you start to regain Consciousness what
did you hear what did you see
again I think when I first woke up I was
just it was just pure shock I didn't
know why I was so big I didn't know why
I had the breathing tubes and
um the the crazy thing too is I guess
during my the whole time when I was in a
coma my my feet
were turning black slowly because a lot
of the damage was done when my body was
dying so all the blood went to like my
brain my heart my my organs and my
everything and so your lower extremities
or your extremities if that don't really
get the blood because you're dying so
they're going to preserve
the goods first if that makes sense
um so a lot of that damage was
irreversible because I was
I don't know on my bedroom floor
alone dying for I don't know a couple
hours I guess you know and that time a
lot of that damage was
was done to my lower extremities but
also they were it was happening to my
hands too
and so my hands were turning black too
and and to this day there's no reason
why any medical physician can tell me
why my hands came back and I didn't have
to amputate like they were thinking
about amputating my legs and my hands
while I was in the coma because they
were discolored and you know turning
kind of purplish pink and it's pretty
crazy like if I would have woken up and
had no arms and no legs I definitely
don't think I would be here there's no
way I don't think I'm that strong
there's there's just no way but the idea
of that is just kind of crazy that and
maybe it's because you know my arms are
close to my heart and the blood flow
came came easier that way but
I think that's pretty crazy too
when was the first time you were aware
that there was a suggestion of
amputating anything
um for the first time I was alone in the
ICU at St John's and it was just me
sitting there
and my feet were just constantly on fire
like it literally felt as though someone
was sitting there just lighting my foot
on fire like the burning sensation was
insane
um and my my right leg was worse than my
left
my toes on my left side were turning
purplish pink
um but my right side there was a lot
more damage you could tell
and so then the concern came in of
basically they needed to amputate my
right leg to save my life
or I was gonna die and I had no idea
about any of that so I'm laying there my
room is empty
and there's a nurse that comes in and
she's on the other side of me behind a
curtain and I can hear the conversation
and she's saying I have a young girl
here is 24 years old who's going to need
a right leg below the knee amputation
and we need to get her in bed right away
and into Hyperbaric as soon as possible
so she's on the phone to UCLA to get me
into UCLA because they have the best
hyperbaric chambers there that basically
it's like 200 oxygen that you go into
and it basically is just like
gets everything moving and the blood
flow to everything and
so they were trying to get me a room and
I just remember hearing like I just
remember like looking around and being
like is she she's talking about me
like she's she's saying that I'm
amputation like and I just [__]
started screaming and I was screaming
for my mom I was screaming for my God I
was screaming for everyone I was like do
not let this person do not let anyone
touch me do not let this like what is
she saying like tell her that's not true
like just completely unaware of like the
severity of the situation for myself
and
yeah it was that was probably the first
time where I like even heard the word
amputation I can't believe you overheard
it yeah it was like shocking
and then from there I think I just was
like I'm [__] doomed
because like
you know
being able to just
walk and move and obviously being an
athlete and
having your legs like I couldn't even
wrap my head around that like what does
that even look like you overhear that
behind the curtain you start screaming
what happens then
I think too it's like
being able or just being a normal human
being you never even think about what
that looks like
what that even entails of having to live
with or having to even you know
put a leg like you just your mind
doesn't even go there because why would
it you know and so for me just knowing
what that did look like and what I knew
of people with you know Prosthetics or
whatever I just I was like this is this
is not gonna happen like this cannot
happen to me this is not reality this is
like a [__] nightmare that I just
really hope is gonna end soon did your
mother come running in yeah she she came
running in and she was just like trying
to call me but obviously it was like she
probably knew too but
it was just a shock it was just like how
I couldn't even comprehend like what
that even meant
um so then they were like we need to get
you to UCLA as soon as possible so we
went to UCLA
um
and you know what's crazy it's like our
Health Care system is so backwards too
like
I can look back and say I'm grateful a
that I have helped that I had health
insurance but also that I knew people
that I knew people in substantial places
and and places that could help me
but if I didn't know them I wouldn't
have been given those
luxurious like opportunities of even
getting a bet in UCLA if my mom didn't
know so and so or if my godfather didn't
make this call or do you know what I
mean and it's like that shouldn't even
be a thing like everyone is a human
being
like there's no this or that for for
life and that was kind of like really
after all of this I was like that's
really sad that
I don't know life is kind of picked
apart like what matters and who matters
and when it matters and
what you
what cards you can pull together you
know
um
so just getting to UCLA and in in there
and getting a room and being able to
like have that specific health care and
that attention especially when I needed
it was honestly Heaven Sent because I
wouldn't have gotten what I got had I
not been in connections with the people
that I knew
but yeah just getting to UCLA and
immediately getting into Hyperbaric and
trying to see you know the severity of
the damage and if it was possible to
even get any blood flow
um but and it would be weird because I'd
go into the hyperbaric chamber and it's
like this huge it's probably like the
size of this room and you could probably
put like four or five people in it and
they would just wheel me in and I'd
probably have to take somebody crazy
anti-anxiety medicine because it's like
it's like going to the depths of the
ocean you know they have to turn the
thing and they can't open it for
anything like otherwise you your lunch
lungs would explode and it's like it's
pretty serious and then having to like
see your feet slowly just
mummify or your you know your toes turn
black and
you know this one doctor I remember she
said something like
yeah you can just go home and you know
your toes would just fall off and
you know like
this is before I got to the doctors that
I needed but that was like kind of the
[__] that I was presented with
of like people coming in and saying like
oh well you know this is just what's
gonna happen and after that happens then
we'll figure it out it's like excuse me
and then like making a call and being
like this is absolutely like insane no
way it's you know that happening or
just go home and your toes will fall off
yeah as if that's like just the thing
you come out of the hyperbaric chamber
you're I guess the Hope was after coming
out of the hyperbaric chamber that
there'd be some kind of movement in your
feet or or something right I had to do
it like three times a day for hours on
end it was not just like one thing it
was just trying to see
especially immediately how my body was
responding and if it was responding and
if there was any way they can salvage
anything and at that point gangrene had
set into my right leg and it was moving
really really fast
so that's when they were like we need to
amputate like now
if they hadn't then I would die
because the infection would spread from
the right leg up around the body so I
was like cruising up my right leg but it
somewhat was starting in my left foot
too so my my toes
and my heel were really badly severely
damaged so from that but then I had my
whole left
leg but on my right side it was like
slowly creeping towards turning purplish
pink and yeah they were like it was this
is going to move quick and it's going to
move to your heart and you're going to
be dead so I really didn't have enough I
didn't have an option a doctor said that
to you
with your mother there
and they were like you have a 50 50
chance of
ever walking again as far as keeping my
left side because my toes would need to
be amputated my heel needed to be
debrised and
knowing this now but like your heel is
probably the most important part of your
entire body because there's nothing on
this planet that is
able to take the beating that it takes
on a daily basis whether it's standing
running the pressure
anything
um that fat or that specific skin you
can't buy that on the market there's
nothing on the planet that can you know
you can just grow it back or replace it
or you know do a transplant or something
of that sort it doesn't exist
so that was a huge concern for the
doctors and as far as like me being able
to go back to normal life and being able
to just walk normally even if I didn't
have toes which is people can do but the
heel was a huge like concern for theirs
and me personally I was like
and God rest my my godfather I wish I
would have listened to him but he was
like you should probably just do both
and move on with your life
and just kind of like
you know
just keep talking but like I couldn't
even
fathom what that looked like I was like
there's no way there's no way I was like
I have to do this slowly I'll have to
like maybe just do the one and then see
what happens but like there was no way I
could go in there definitively and be
like just take them
so
when it becomes clear that that's the
path forward what's your initial
response to the doctors when they come
with a definitive answer that this is
the the path we have to take how do you
receive that how does your mom receive
that oh I was just like
it's just
obviously just a nightmare like crying
screaming freaking out
um you know especially when I'm
presented with the papers
to have you know them do the procedure
to take my life I mean I take my legs
and and it felt like my life because
that's all I knew of like being an
athlete you know being a model looking a
certain way
um everything I knew about myself was
completely just out the door I mean I
was 200 pounds my head was shaved
because my hair got matted because they
were trying to save my life and
obviously no one gives a [__] about your
hair when you're dying
um and
you know here I am
in a hospital room and being told that
you know I'm going to enter this
operating room and come out a completely
different person and losing a part of
myself
um it was just it was so surreal and so
scary
and you know then I had like people
coming in with prosthetics and like
showing me how they're how they live
their lives and you know my God my
grandpa is from the Army so he was like
you know you're just like these guys are
going to get blown up and and at that
time I was so like
Preston it was such a dark time that I
was like I'm not I didn't sign up for
this this is not what I asked for like I
didn't sign something saying
okay these are the possibilities I could
die I could lose limbs I I was like this
is this shouldn't have [__] happened
you know let alone like I'm 24 years old
and now I'm having to lose a part of
myself and
it's something I can never ever get back
I can never grow it back I can't go to a
surgeon to get it like this is
this is going to change my life forever
and you have to sign that paper and I
have and I had no choice because
otherwise again it was my life it was
was my leg
did you consider not signing it
no
I was in so much pain
I was in so much pain I can't even tell
you like I don't even know how I made it
like of course like I was drugged up so
much and and I think that was how
obviously I got through it but just to
to have to actually process what was
about to happen I don't think I fully
even gathered until
I got down and they were like I signed
the papers and they're like all right
it's today's surgery day and like
Wheeling me out of my room
down to the floor and like me holding
like a stuffed animal and just screaming
and crying and like
feeling like I'm doomed
you know and then my mom is like
freaking out and everyone's crying and
then they write on your legs like yes
and no so like them writing yes in black
marker on my leg that I knew that was
gonna
go and then you know seeing it on my on
my left leg of amputating my toes and to
bring my heel
it was yeah it was just it was a lot I
don't even think I really processed that
and then when they were Wheeling me away
I just screamed from my mom to like not
let them take me and
that was yeah
you and mother during this period she's
watching her daughter be willed away
she's you're 24 years old you've built a
life on modeling and Athletics she's
watching you be willed
um a way to have an amputation that day
what's what's her State of Mind what's
her sort of visible
um State broken
completely broken completely shattered
completely just
couldn't believe that that was even what
was happening and it all happened so
fast because obviously you know it's
it's my livelihood it's it's am I going
to survive this let alone do I have time
to make a decision based on am I wanting
to keep my leg or not it wasn't even an
option
it was chaos it was complete chaos
what did she say to you before you um
you get wheeled into the operating room
I love you and she I just remember her
like grabbing herself because she was
like obviously screaming crying but like
trying to like not hide it from me but
like she couldn't even look at me being
wheeled back because she knew
you know it was like she just had to
like turn and just like cry and scream
and hold it in as best she could to be
strong
um but yeah me screaming for her
obviously didn't help and I just felt
like there was no control I I couldn't
even just get up and [__] run if I
wanted to
that's the irony of it it's like I was
literally physically stuck no matter
what and I was just having to do this
and it was yeah it was horrible
she she kissed your leg
and my feet she kissed your leg in your
feet before you were willed in
um
I mean as a mother you know your newborn
baby
toes and feet and seeing you know it's
you just never would think that that
would ever happen
especially to your child or your loved
one I can't imagine what she was going
through
um because we often you know we often
think about the person who is going
through the medical condition but the
people around them especially people
someone as close as your mother who is
your best friend and you've you've lived
your lives together since since you were
born I can't imagine the
the the sort of trauma and the
you know the uncertainty that she was
living with as well like
have you have you had conversations
subsequently about with her about what
she went through in those moments
no I mean it's sad because I feel like
God has blessed me so much I'm so lucky
not only to just be alive but I have
everything I can need and more and I I
forget every single day that I don't
have legs like I don't even think about
it the only time I think about is when I
gotta pee in the middle of the night and
like you know going in the ocean like
there's certain things I I can't do you
can't just run in there because you know
I have metal and I have screws and I
have bolts and so like rust but like I
don't even think about it never
and I don't even think about what
happened the trauma and a lot of that
you know maybe it's true like I'm
suppressed and I've just kind of moved
on but really I'm just the happiest
human but when I am with my mom it is
something where she's so fixated on the
trauma right of what happened and
I think it's lives with her more so than
me
and it's sad because I hate that
because I wish that she can just live
her life and know that and live and know
that like I'm more than okay
my god's got me and he's had me this
whole time like you don't have to worry
but I think as a mother and knowing the
[__] that I don't even [__] know that
she had to go through and the decision
she had to make I mean she was like
writing down everything calling everyone
you know making sure that I had the best
of the best making sure she like
took the notes and and the nurses and
the doctors and I mean she was amazing
and so I know that she definitely saw
and felt way more than I could even
understand or
you know gather from her and and I just
hope that one day she can let it go
because
I have you know and I just I want that
freedom for her
you're so concerned about this
yeah
but I think it's just
it's just hard I mean I can't imagine
what she must have felt and seen and
you know it was it was hard
it was every day was like are we gonna
make it
you know it was it was it was a lot
you come out of the operating room how
long were you in there
uh I don't know how long I was in there
but I was in there for a while and I
just remember waking up and the doctor
coming to me and he's like
um
basically my heart freaked out during
the operation because I had two heart
attacks when I first went into the
hospital so my heart was already kind of
freaking out and not in the best state
and then through the operation I think
some complications or something happened
so I woke up and I'm sitting there
and I won't look at my leg I didn't I
probably didn't look at my leg for
months like I couldn't even acknowledge
that that even happened so I just
remember sitting up and being like not
even acknowledging it the doctors are
coming in and talking to me and they're
telling me that I had you know some sort
of convocation you know like so Lauren
for the next 24 hours we cannot give you
any pain medicine
this is right after I had my leg
amputated like chopped off
and he's like I guess basically because
of all the medicine and stuff it like
something about they couldn't
I don't know my my it was about me
staying alive and not like having my
heart like freak out having another
heart attack or whatever I don't really
remember the gist of it because clearly
I was so like not even really present
but when I heard those words I was just
like what so literally for 24 hours they
put me in my own little room
and I felt every single thing that was
done to me
I was throwing [__] I was screaming I
was crying I felt like a shark could
just [__] rip through my leg
and
yeah like no my mom couldn't be in the
room like no one could be because I was
just screaming and crying and just
freaking out because like Not only was
that traumatic enough having to like
have my leg chopped off but then to have
to
really feel what was just done to me
and have like have to actually just deal
with it was on another level
and that's something like a lot of
people don't know but that was really
crazy
[Music]
it's just unimaginable it's just like
you've used the word god quite a few
times
were you religious before this happened
and are you religious are you still
religious now yeah I definitely I
definitely was
I mean I'm not like
you know
I just I believe in a higher power I
believed I believe in God I believe that
you know there's something definitely
directing my steps like I would not be
here if
there wasn't there's no way I would be
alive if there wasn't a purpose for my
life and there is definitely obviously
now I I can say that but like going
through all of that
um I think there definitely was a moment
when I was pissed at God and didn't
understand why this had happened
um but I know that in the process of
like
going through depression and suicide and
and even having those thoughts
every morning when I get in the shower
and I'd have to get on like a little
stool in the shower I'd wheel myself to
the shower which is another thing I was
in a wheelchair for eight months which
is
crazy
um
and my phone my left foot was still
questionable I didn't have the right leg
but that's kind of just where I was
after I left the hospital but every day
I would wheel myself into the shower get
myself on a stool and just [__]
scream and cry and just yell at God and
wanting to like think about ways I could
kill myself and my life that day and
every day that I did that something
inside was like just hold on
there was something that just like
in my in my soul was like just hold on
I mean it all makes sense now but
for those moments it was definitely like
hard
just hold on
yeah and I and trusting the process and
trusting and believing that like
you know this madness is just temporary
and this is it'll all just make sense
just just hold on kid just like
don't don't don't pull the trigger
and you seriously considered that
sometimes I mean obviously not pulling a
trigger I didn't have a gun but if I did
have access to one I'm sure I probably
wouldn't be here I it was it was to that
extent of like every day
you know waking up and just couldn't
even believe or even know how and the
hell I got to where I was
you know 200 pounds head shaved one leg
another leg that's questionable
um just the excruciating pain that I was
in
and just life continuously moving right
everything's happening and I'm just
having to stand still sit still and and
be present with this nothingness but
just darkness and
it was my mom and I and my little
brother and I just he would be the first
one coming home every day
every time I thought about killing
myself I always thought like
he would be the first one to find me
and
obviously my mom too but like not
having them have to live with that for
the rest of their life
I think it really was like I couldn't do
that
so
obviously it never happened but it was
it was for sure
and every moment thought
especially like
and just being in so much pain and like
having every part of yourself removed
sorry I don't know why I'm crying but
when I hear your story I you know and
this is I think why I asked the question
about faith in God is it feels just like
the deepest Injustice
you know it feels just like such a deep
Injustice and it feels that for for that
to happen to you
it my my head just goes you know like
how is this how is this Fair
and then to hear the suffering that you
endured from then after I just I just
can't understand the world where someone
puts a tampon in and then they have to
endure such suffering
and it just it's hard to make sense of
like even for me hearing it I just can't
make sense of a world where that that
could happen to someone
what what what are your thoughts at that
moment about this point of Injustice are
you feeling a sense of Injustice are you
asking yourselves a question
I think back then I was so
concerned with every moment and
surviving every moment and trying to
just live
um that I didn't really think of
how [__] up this is
that you know I I'm doing a documentary
and so I have like 90 hours of
footage that was filmed during this
whole process because I was going to die
because of Damages because of the
reality of just documenting everything
that I had to go through and the trauma
of it all
um
and when I look back on it and I see
myself my my 24 year old self especially
in that state
it's really sad because I'm like I was
so innocent and I was so young and I had
this entire life and journey ahead of me
and it was like
how did I deserve that
just
crazy like I didn't do anything wrong I
was using the product as I should I did
everything I was supposed to
and you know
it's just crazy that that is so powerful
and toxic
and it's and and again it's almost sad
because again I'm the lucky one
that I'm here being able to speak about
this
um but there are so many women that
you'll never see
you'll never hear their stories you'll
never see their faces you never hear the
trauma they experience because they're
no longer here
and so it's my duty to
a share my story but B inform the world
that this is
this is
inhumane
and it's just it could easily be
prevented
but again it's greed it's it's cost
efficiency it's money
you know it's um you know I always say
my interviews if men's dicks were
falling off tomorrow
that wouldn't happen
so why is it women are having to fight
for everything let alone what we do with
our bodies let alone with the products
that we are given for something that we
are just naturally having to do every
month for 40 something years
you know
why are we not a priority like why are
we not
detected and upheld to the stature of of
men were 50 of the population and also
we make life we create life
it just seems so crazy to me
but again we're in 2023 and and those
men are still making decisions about
what women do with their bodies and
their choices on on how they you know
approach what they want to do with
themselves in their lives it's it's
crazy
you come out of Hospital you're in your
wheelchair bound for eight months um
you're living at home at this point yeah
with my mom and my brother yeah
what impact does it have on your brother
he's he's 10 years younger than user
he's what 14 15 year old kid
um he is now first hand
he's got a first sort of person
perspective to real trauma and suffering
and someone he loves and at 14 you know
I can't even imagine I mean I think
that's also why there's a lot of
um
I think it's hard I've realized in my
situation that everyone that was with me
in those moments
it was so heavy and dark for such a long
period of time again like you said prior
it's not just about me going through the
situation it's it affects every single
person it's like a domino effect and
everyone's going to deal with it
differently
um and a lot of people especially them
being so young you know just have to go
through even that with me not even
experiencing firsthand
was traumatic um you know so let alone
my 14 15 year old brother who's having
to see
you know their sister in this state you
know and then having to be so depressed
and so angry and just pushing and
punching everything away from me as far
as I could because I didn't want to be
here anymore
and him having to experience that I'm
sure is taking a toll
and it makes me sad because it's it just
this whole thing is is is just so dark
and
it just goes back to yeah it just
affects everyone differently and and I'm
lucky that I've been able to get to this
place because
you know I've I've done a lot of the
work I've had to actually sit with
myself and deal with it but
it's hard to go there it's hard to to
dig deep and to have to face the reality
of of what you faced especially in those
moments
and who knows when that will be and if
that will ever be but
you know what for the you mean for those
around you yeah they'll also go sit and
do the work
yeah and like I think too it's like to
see me in such a place now where I'm
okay I think a lot of people forget like
that I that I went through that too like
they just see me now and like
everything's great but and I see myself
now and everything's great but again I
I'm at a different place when a lot of
people still have to maybe sit with the
things that I maybe wasn't aware of or
I wasn't a coma or what you know the
decisions and the talks that happened
when
you know it was
it was
crucial
to my well-being and even if I was going
to survive or not when you came out of
hospital and you spent with your the
next eight months in a wheelchair in
real pain
um
depressed very what were your prospects
for life in your own from your own
perspective what were you thinking your
life was if you thought about the future
if at all
what was the future for you in those
moments I didn't have one
I I definitely
I think that's also why I was so
suicidal is because I had this life you
know I had everything at my fingertips I
was able to do everything and anything
um and there were so many goals that I
wanted to achieve and to to I just
wanted to live my life I just thought
like
I just had so many hopes and dreams that
in that moment of like sitting in my my
my darkest room because I didn't want to
see the world I had it like completely
blacked out
um and having to sit with myself and
like seeing myself
in a wheelchair I mean people who are in
wheelchairs are my heroes because I
don't know how they face a world that's
not meant for them it's hard it's so
hard to go outside and to go and just do
the simplest things and to a be looked
at differently
um just things that we as people who are
able to just be able-bodied or have
Prosthetics or move or or whatever how
that challenges them
you know and then face a world that kind
of just looks at them and and kind of
doesn't in a way it's it's hard like I
don't think if I had to be in a
wheelchair would I be that strong
mentally it takes a really strong person
mentally to be
to live that type of life and and I
hold the utmost respect for anyone that
has to live in a wheelchair or be in a
wheelchair because you're [__] a rock
star and so strong
and for those eight months I was just
like there's no way I can live my life
like this there's no way I can
it's just not accessible the world is
not accessible
I learned that it's just not
and it's it's
and then you just look down upon
which is just crazy because
you're really so strong
to have to you know
just face the world every day what is
that like you said you look down upon
what did you learn about the way that
people in wheelchairs are viewed people
with disabilities in general I think
it's just like there's just like stigma
of incapable
because you maybe look a certain way or
because you're confined in a certain
space or the world is not built for that
the world is is built for you know run
in walk stairs you know
a shower or even just step like people
forget that there are people who can't
do those things and they're a lot of
time left out
and
and in those moments I've learned that
because I've faced it myself
I think in my journey it's interesting
because like I've had to face so many
different
parts of life and lived So Many Lives
four maybe shorts up out of time but at
least in those moments I've been able to
relate and to live with maybe some
something that someone does have to live
with forever
and how strong you have to be and what
it takes every day to face a world
you know that isn't really made for you
or accepting of you or you know just
because you you look a certain way
you're immediately judged or or just
seen as you can't do it and that's not
true
were you going outside during that eight
months barely
I hid myself I I didn't even like
um
yeah maybe just like
somewhat get my dog outside my mama kind
of force me but
I wouldn't I would just definitely want
to stay in my own little world as dark
as possible and just hide as dark as
possible yeah because I didn't I didn't
want to see outside because I couldn't
go outside like I used to look at people
with legs and be so pissed because I'm
like why do they have their legs and I
don't
because you're so depressed and so like
just in this zone of like you don't want
to live anymore let alone like you're
angry at the world because
just of life because you can't live it
the way that you used to
and
yeah you just you just it was just a
really dark time of trying to figure out
again why am I here what am I doing
is there a place for me I didn't think I
would ever be accepted by the modeling
world at all let alone looked at let
alone find love genuine love
um I
again I didn't even think of life I just
thought of how can I get out of this
misery
and that's why I was like just
contemplating suicide daily
every day I was just like how can I do
this
it's really um it's really
it's really just really hard to think
about when you see no light at the end
of the tunnel for such a long period of
time like there's never been been
through hard things in my life but
there's always been a glimmer of light
even at the end of a tunnel and to be in
a situation where you're waking up every
day
and there is no light at the end of the
tunnel as far as you can see
but carrying on regardless
well so my foot was questionable so I'm
having to go to wound care I'm having to
go to Hyperbaric every day my whole
entire world shattered and I'm just
sitting there with the pieces and then
I'm just in excruciating pain I mean the
pain that I lived with for even seven
years before I made the decision to
amputate my my second leg I had because
I was so young my body was overproducing
so much calcium that my bones even
though I didn't have toes anymore my
bones were literally protruding out my
skin like pushing and trying to
basically
fix the damage
by like growing new toes but it's
impossible
so I would have to go in and they would
have to amputate that so I'd have to get
my that cut out of me as well I had to
do that surgery twice I'd have to go to
wound care every
every Monday every other Monday
um because my heel was so badly damaged
that again like I told you with the skin
there's no skin on this planet that's
strong enough so I had to do Apple grass
which is which is basically baby
foreskin
um because that's the only skin that's
tough enough
and they did two transplants of that on
my heel and then Hyperbaric to try to
get you know everything to kind of come
together but even doing that I would my
sweat glands are really damaged so I
would sweat and then the they would just
kind of
get really hard and stay there and I'd
have to surgically get them removed
every Monday
and I was just like in so much pain
because there was no fat pads even on on
the bottom of my where the toes would be
so I'm just on bone so every time I'm
stepping I'm just like it's just
excruciating pain
it just felt like um you know when you
have a toothache it's like that
consistent
throbbing pain that you can't get rid of
obviously until you go to the dentist
but that was something that I lived with
for seven years
crazy
I don't know how I did it
but I just thought that I had my whole
leg and I just I'm the type of person
that needs to exhaust all of my options
before I make a decision and that's
something that I just had to do
but in a way I wish I would have taken
my Godfathers
advice in that moment of being like just
take them both because yeah I can sit
here now and say that probably would
have been the best answer but what have
I survived and not killed myself I don't
know
but I think gradually doing one and
learning how to live and to adapt and
you know just how to have a prosthetic
in general and to all the capabilities
and things I can do I had to kind of
learn as a slow process in a way I think
that was my life for seven years I don't
know how I did it
how did you do it
I did it my face also knowing that I
have this purpose that I have to you
know scream out in The toppest Mountain
that I possibly can find and yell and
and get people to pay attention and
I think realizing that I'm just the
lucky one really gives me the fight for
these next Generations to come to not
allow this to ever happen again to
another soul
and to hopefully change the worlds where
that this is not an issue anymore
and it may take my entire life but that
is my purpose quick one before we get
back to this episode just give me 30
seconds of your time
two things I wanted to say the first
thing is a huge thank you for listening
and tuning in to the show week after
week means the world to all of us and
this really is a dream that we
absolutely never had and couldn't have
imagined getting to this place but
secondly it's a dream where we feel like
we're only just getting started and if
you enjoy what we do here please join
the 24 of people who watch this channel
regularly and have hit that subscribe
button means more than I can say and if
you hit that subscribe button here's a
promise I'm gonna make to you I'm gonna
do everything in my power to make this
show as good as I can now and into the
future we're going to deliver the guests
that you want me to speak to and we're
going to continue to keep doing all of
the things you love about the show
thank you thank you so much back to the
episode did you get therapy during that
period those eight months was there any
sort of psychological support yeah
definitely I had a lot of that
um
and it's interesting because during that
process obviously it was I was so dark
and so
just not wanting to be here but the one
consistent thing which is the irony of
it all is like
my grandpa telling me about the um the
veterans that that come back and and all
this stuff and just me being like no no
I don't understand that I don't
understand that comparison then my
therapist at the time was working at the
VA and she was like you know what you
should really come talk to some of these
guys and see you know how how they're
living their lives I was just like no
this is not the same cut to
my prosthetic Guy Peter harsh who's
incredible he's down in San Diego
he's an angel like he's
just the best at what he does who is he
his name is Peter harsh what does he do
he's my prosthetist prosthetist um but
he's like the best in the world and
literally an angel I got recommended to
go down to him because I'm an athlete
and I you know I'm young and I'm active
and I want to live my life and so he
would be setting me up for that
lifestyle that I'd want and he's the guy
to see so I got recommended to go to him
but in that time period of having to sit
kind of like like this but around a
table in his office or his facility
he's dealing with a lot of the veterans
and he's the one that gets them and
fights the VA to get them
taken care of and it's just so
interesting that I've had to sit in this
chair amongst all these amazing
individuals
and hearing their stories and learning
about the fight and and just
the resilience of them and finally
seeing what everyone was kind of saying
as far as the comparison or like you are
just like them
and me never understanding but the
common denominator when I look around
the room is we didn't kill ourselves
we are alive we chose to live
and we all had that moment in our
Journeys however we lost our legs to
want to give up to want to pull the
trigger to want to end it all and we
fought to be in that chair and that was
like
it just came so first full circle for me
and it was just like this beautiful kind
of like aha moment of like
roll with the punches of life regardless
of how they come at you it's it's about
you know
how you react to it
what's your choice going to be
and to know that we all made that choice
is like
you know
incredible not an easy choice to make
there isn't that acceptance you describe
no
I think that's kind of that's kind of
what I'm I'm really I'm really curious
about is the journey one goes on where
they at first they try and fight the
thing that's happened to them and then
that whole contemplation around the
Injustice why me this was preventable
um this is unfair you're looking out
your window you said and seeing people
with legs and I read that you were even
annoyed at the sunshine
you go through that chapter which is
it's a real it's a conflict right it's a
conflict with oneself and the nature of
what's happened and then at some point
you arrive over this other side where
you use the word acceptance you kind of
accept it and you make as you said a
choice you realize that there's a choice
you can make
um
that whole journey because you know
whether someone's had an amputation or
not there's so many people in their
lives right now that are some things
happen to them they're feeling that
sense of Injustice
um
you know they're going through the
motions of blame or or guilt or whatever
it might be to try and understand how it
was avoidable but
the journey from that place the conflict
plays to this acceptance
what you know what does it take for us
to get to acceptance faster
I guess is my question because
acceptance seems to be a much happier
place I mean
design time
you can't rush it
you have no control over it
and I think that's when
it's those moments when you have to sit
in it sit with it
feel it feel every part of it
and you have to figure out what are you
going to do with what you have and what
you've been given
and you know
I had to do that I didn't have a choice
I didn't want to be in a wheelchair and
I saw you know my only option was a
prosthetic
but how was I going to
you know make it cool or make it me or
make it you know something that I could
feel like
all right like this is my my new self
this is my new chapter this is my new
beginning it was more so like I needed
to see it as a challenge first because
that's how my mind operated of like
Lauren you have no other [__] Choice
you're either gonna be depressed and
kill yourself and end it or you're gonna
get the [__] up and
figure out what you're gonna have to do
to survive and live the best life that
you know you deserve
and it was just a slow process slope
like I wish I could put the fast forward
and be like what I know now I knew back
then but it's impossible I every part of
my journey and everything that I've been
through has gotten me to this place
every every part has shaped me and
molded me into who I am right now and a
lot of that had to do with me doing the
work and processing and again seeing
that our physical beings is nothing
doesn't matter it's like a shiny object
but you can be the most beautiful person
but you can be the most sad
unfulfilled
ugly person you know I mean it just
it doesn't mean anything it's about what
you do on this planet not just for
yourself but for others
how can you leave that impact
you know and that's kind of like how I
now live my life every day is because
again everyone is is fighting something
every day and a lot of those ones you
can't see it's mental it's it's trauma
that you'll never speak about or talk
about her whatever but you are
internally having to deal with and face
on a daily basis and
I think if anyone sees me
if I'm just getting out of my car if I'm
walking to get coffee or I'm laughing
I'm hanging whatever you see me on the
cover of something Google me whatever
and you see
that I didn't just wake up and get here
that I too had all of those feelings
that depression that State of Mind of
not wanting to be here
but not allowing that to Define me and
to define the future that I knew that I
could have for myself
you got to see that even though things
are very small those those
big celebrations of
even just getting up the next day even
though you don't want to or you know
facing something super hard or
pushing yourself out the door when you
don't want to or you know not taking the
pills that are in front of you and
ending it
that waking up the next day is a new day
that like you made it from that point so
it's just about gradually building onto
that
every every little little challenge is a
success that you've overcome
and it adds up over time and then soon
enough you'll be in a place where you're
like looking back and being like wow
I did that
and I think that's the beauty of like
life and
the darkest Times Really mold us for the
people that we're supposed to be
it's so incredible because you know
we've everyone in their own lives feels
like they've overcome something right
and the degrees in which the the
mountains that they've overcome are all
different sizes and that's why your
advice there is so
unbelievably important and Powerful
because
it is
life advice for us all it's not
um someone who has an amputation advice
in that I sort as you were speaking I
saw all of the struggles I've been
through in my life and the process the
things you're saying about time
a community meeting other people that
have been been through hardships that
you can relate to and not making you
feel like you belong and you're
understood and your plight is is a human
plight you're not you know broken or or
or or there's nothing wrong with you
this is what it is to be a human I was
as you were speaking as well I was
thinking about this idea of strength and
it is so tempting to say oh my God
you're so strong and in any in the
context of how someone might view you
and say you've got Incredible strength
which you have
um there's also this other side of using
the word strength which makes me feel a
bit uncomfortable because when we think
of strength sometimes we think of like
kind of like buckle up yeah yeah but
actually I think from what I've learned
from doing this anyway the path to
strength is actually often being okay to
be vulnerable and and be what some
people might describe as
quote-unquote weakness which is like
being willing to talk and being willing
to cry and being willing to hold your
hands up and say I need help
um and it's almost ironical ironic that
that's the path to strength that
sometimes a vulnerability and saying I
need help is the path to
that make sense yeah but it's also
owning it being able to like be like
this is what it is and
and you know patience and time and once
you understand that you can't rush that
especially when something physical
happens to you can't rush the human body
to heal right away it's impossible so I
really had no choice it was like I had
to
feel I had to sit with it I had to use a
wheelchair I had to use a stool for a
shower I had to you know learn how to
walk without a limp I you know I I had
to force myself to do the uncomfortable
but we only grow in the uncomfortable if
we're feeling fine and great and
everything's Dandy we're not growing
we're just
staying the same
you make the decision some years later I
think six or seven years later that you
um
you wanted to
amputate the second leg your left leg
why I wanted my life back I wanted my
freedom I was turning 30 and I was like
I want to be a mom I'm an athlete I want
to just be able to run
I want to feel the the wind in my hair
you know the wind on my face I just want
to be able to move movement is so
important
and I wasn't able to do that with that
leg it was holding you back it was
holding me back from living my truth
and I knew it was the best decision that
I was going to make for myself and it is
I never ever look back and say oh I
shouldn't have done it I more so look
back and say I should have done it
sooner
or I wish I would have done it sooner I
guess
on The Today Show you said
um
losing your first like saved saved your
life and losing the second lap like gave
you your freedom
which is so interesting it's such a
it's such an interesting
um unexpected thing to hear that losing
your second leg is the thing that
allowed you to have your freedom how did
life change once you'd made that
decision and you've gone through that
operation
so I didn't have toes and then my heel
was still just it just would never be
normal again and it was just like
why am I going this is not living I'm
just getting by I'm just waking up and
going to the doctors or I'm not going
and going for a run
I'm not going to go and play basketball
I'm not going to be able to just walk
down the street comfortably
you know I I definitely even like right
in the beginning like I would wear
hoodies and sweatpants I mean you can
see the heat wave here right now that's
kind of what I was in but I was in like
you know huge sweatshirt huge sweatpants
making sure like no one could see that I
didn't have a leg
because I was so scared of what other
people would think I I just was ashamed
of myself I was ashamed of what happened
I didn't I just didn't know what was
happening or what would happen next
because it was so unknown
so I was just trying to like still I
guess live in this world that I thought
was of that girl
but I was no longer that girl
and this was your God is your
Godfather's advice was to at the time
when you first had the incident first
happened your Godfather's advice was to
amputate both legs yeah and by the time
you you'd gone through that decision to
amputate the left leg as well was your
godfather still around
he he was around
um but then shortly after he died in a
horrific car accident
which was is really crazy because he
literally sat with me every single day
you know hoping and praying that I would
survive you know you know playing Bob
Marley's three little birds and seeing
to me you know and then cut to
he's killed
and I'm okay
so it was just like
how that happened is insane but he was
like your father yeah
he was incredible he was one of the
biggest Sports agents in the world for
basketball
um and he was just like double 07 like
so swaggy so cool like you know had to
ask him and he just lived this like cool
lifestyle and was just the coolest guy
and was so smart and
loving and sweet and yeah just just
everything I didn't have within a
fatherly figure he definitely was my
rock
um in that aspect of life
up until you know the very end
how does how does how does losing him
impact you at that that point in your
life
it was hard it was just like
I literally had just amputated so I was
on crutches
um
I just bought a house so I was like
really wanting him to come over and see
it
and you know I still have a voicemail
that I missed his call and the voicemail
was like hey let me know like when I can
come over and finally see you know the
crib and check it out and blah blah and
I was like that was it
and then like I think a few days later
he died
but it's just
it's just crazy because
I know he's proud of me and I know that
like I have so many angels that I carry
with me and I just know that he's
he's Along on this journey I know he's
super proud of me
so if I can you know I live with that so
and he has an amazing little son that's
the best as well so
he's still here
in a lot of different ways
and he's aware how much he helped you
throughout through that period
I think he's still really young but I
but it's it's interesting because like
you know for kids to see me like
kind of like a robot or like a superhero
you know I walk out and then I just see
these gold legs and it's like it's
interesting because a lot of kids at
first don't even notice them
and then when they do then they're just
fixated then they're just like staring
and then they're just like it was just
one little boy I remember being in in
the Switzerland in the airport
and he literally sat on top of his
suitcase kept rolling up his pant leg
looking at his leg looking at me looking
at his leg looking at me and then I
remember his mom was like you know can
you can he ask you a question or
something I was like of course like he
came over and then he started to like
try to race me in the airport because I
wanted to see how fast I was and then he
was like touching up my leg and feeling
and I was like I'm like a superhero I'm
like a robot and he's like yeah and then
at the end of it he's like tugging on
his mom's shirt and he's like he's like
Mommy Mommy I want a golden leg and I
was just like yeah yeah it's pretty cool
I must say
but again that's just like I've learned
too it's like in in this journey that
owning it and accepting it and being
okay with it it only attracts people's
curiosity instead of shutting them away
or making them feel like they shouldn't
ask the questions and especially with
young kids their their brains are like
sponges and they're curious and a lot of
people
you know that may look different
their their mothers or their parents are
probably like don't look don't stare
don't and that's not what you should do
let them ask the questions like I'm an
open book but like
I think giving little kids that idea of
there is something wrong don't ask don't
question
it should be like you should ask the
questions and you should Wonder because
that kid now is going to see someone
like myself or
just think that I'm the coolest thing on
the planet instead of leaving thinking
that there's something wrong or that I'm
incapable or unable to do something so I
think it just the perception of I think
how you just carry yourself is really
important because you don't know who's
watching
and it's usually the ones that like are
in the you know the little ones and
those are the ones that are this next
generation or the generations that come
golden legs golden legs why golden
um it was 2012 obsessed with Brianna
um and the irony of of Rihanna is that
my mom had got me tickets to go see her
and I was so depressed and in a
wheelchair and I was so embarrassed and
I was like I'm not gonna go so I didn't
go cut to she hires me for Savage
and it was just so like full circle
moment for me too because I'm like
Rihanna's hiring me for her brand and I
I was so embarrassed to go to the
concert just crazy life but anyway now
she's married days or and you know has
babies with ASAP and ASAP was the reason
why I chose the golden legs because he
had the Golden Grill like he was all
about that especially at that time that
was his thing his gold teeth and I was
like you know what I may not have gold
teeth right now but I'm gonna get some
gold legs
and it's kind of just been my thing
and I love gold I love gold jewelry and
I have a grill too I've
you know so many different things but
like my legs are they're my jewelry
piece
they're like my trophies
it's also a statement of um of the kind
of where you were with the acceptance
piece because you went from the
sweatpants where you're trying to hide
to the gold where you're like look at
this look how cool this is It's a real
it's a kind of a real psychological
journey to
to get from there to there yeah and I
think it's just about again finding and
making it your own and figuring out what
works for you and how like you know and
I'm also that was zero zero one percent
that is so lucky to be able to have the
access to the Prosthetics that allow me
to move the way I do that allow me to
walk the way I do you know Prosthetics
are so expensive
um and tell me that because I'm in
obviously I don't know about Prosthetics
in terms of books so Prosthetics are
really expensive because
like the feet are what allow you to do
everything right
um and Healthcare like God forbid
someone goes and get hit by a car
tomorrow they're just given the basic
needs that are going to be met which is
just like a peg leg that just gets you
from point A to point B anything that's
allowing you to basically get back to
your livelihood meaning running biking
swimming any of that stuff going into
the ocean even
that's a luxury considered so Healthcare
doesn't really provide you with that
option so
I'm grateful that I'm that I'm sponsored
by oser who's a prosthetic company out
of Iceland that they're so Advanced and
so like ahead of the game
um that they've made my feet
to where it's like the blade is like an
ankle to where like the mobility and
flexibility is just like as if I had a
foot my blades are my running blades
um they're like 125 thousand dollars
and that's just to run
just to run
and I mean these are expensive too my
legs are probably like a hundred
thousand dollars but these are just
because the feet and then you know the
technology that goes into them and then
you know the whole leg or whatever it's
it's
a process and it's also just sad that
I'm lucky
that someone can't just get back to
their life like that's why um this
foundation called
um challenged athletes Foundation CAF
and they work with getting their people
their lives back by getting them legs
that they need to get back to just
living their everyday life
if you've been listening to this podcast
over the last few months you'll know
that we're sponsored and supported by
Airbnb but it amazes me how many people
don't realize they could actually be
sitting on their very own Airbnb for me
as someone who works away a lot it just
makes sense to Airbnb my place at home
whilst I'm away if your job requires you
to be away from home for extended
periods of time why leave your home
empty you can so easily turn your home
into an Airbnb and let it generate
income for you whilst you're on the road
whether you could use a little extra
money to cover some bills or for
something a little bit more fun your
home might just be worth more than you
think and you can find out how much it's
worth at airbnb.com
host that's airbnb.co.uk host so I want
to come back to this
um
what caused all of this you've been
campaigning for some time you've spoken
to government officials about
how to prevent this happening to other
people
um
zooming in specifically on what causes
TSS
it's the synthetic chemicals that are
put into tampon products that are that a
lot of big Brands still have on shelves
all around the world today I'm an idiot
when it comes to tampons
so if you had to explain this to an
idiot so basically a tampon it goes
inside of us at a really delicate moment
when our body is we're bleeding we're
trying to get that blood out but yet
we're putting something in us that's
basically like a corkscrew and all of
that blood that needs to get out is
stuck there it's creating this perfect
storm along with the dioxin the chlorine
the bleach all of these chemicals that
are that shouldn't be anywhere near us
let alone inside of us and it creates
The Perfect Storm
so once that even sliver of of that even
gets in your system and your bloodstream
because it is like the mecca of
everything it can go straight to your
heart and kill you
and you know that's basically what we're
saying is like why are you giving us
something that is so toxic
with all of these chemicals even if it
says it's organic it's still sprayed
with pesticides
and then we're putting that inside of us
and it's like just like a petri dish of
of
yeah like just
The Perfect Storm
has it changed your perspective on all
of these other cosmetic products we use
in our lives you know like deodorant
everything yeah because everything has
something in it I think even with the
food you know and and the thing is like
these girls nowadays are getting their
periods at such a young age eight nine
ten years old because of all the
hormones and the food so then they're
using these products way sooner than we
would
when I was younger and they don't even
have the antibodies to fight the toxins
in the tampons so they're the ones that
are more susceptible to even getting
toxic shock syndrome
so you know and and a lot of these young
women nowadays are getting endometriosis
polyps cysts cancer you know way earlier
than ever ever before because they're
using these products
way before they probably should why do
you think they're still on sale these
products and is there when you see that
the products that you caused
all of this harm to you are still on
shelves right now
how does that make you feel infuriating
because I'm just like how is it the
thing is for me it's it's about being
transparent right cigarettes if you go
to to purchase cigarettes and you look
because sometimes there's a picture it's
uncomfortable to see but at least that's
your choice you're making the choice to
use that product
you're not giving women choices
you're not like being honest about
what's going in your product and what
it's going to do to us if I use it for a
day a month a year what is that going to
do to my body internally
what issues may I develop
you know again why also are we having to
use
products that are just
full of toxicity instead of using
something that could easily be changed
and but it's because it's money
it's easier for them to pay out lawsuits
or to do all of that stuff than to
change all the machines
to change the development of the temp on
his net it's actually never been changed
tampon is the same as it's always been
the only thing that has changed is the
advertising the packaging the
commercials I was always pissed at the
commercials because I'm like how is
there a girl running on a beach going
down a slide running track doing all
this stuff
but there's no warning at the bottom of
a tampon commercial of what that product
can do to you let alone you watch Advil
commercial or a men's enhancement
commercial and if you're not looking at
the commercial you're hearing it
it's a medical device
you think that's their approach to it
that what they're well aware of the
potential harm these products can cause
but they'd rather just pay the lawsuit
than do the expensive work of changing
the product
yeah thousand percent this shouldn't be
happening
it doesn't need to be happening but
there's been no
you know no uh accountability
and that's why you know I'm I'm having
to
be in this position where I can share my
story share the story of others you know
work with this woman trying to wake up
Congress to like
say hey why is it still happening what's
going on here you've been campaigning to
have laws changed to have you've you've
done I mean a tremendous job probably
more so than anyone else that's ever
lived to raise awareness for this issue
um what can be done what do you want to
see done to prevent this happening to
other people
yeah I've unfortunately fortunately and
unfortunately I have been working with a
mother who lost her teenage daughter
um to toxic shock syndrome I think when
she was about 18.
Madeline masavi
um through the darkness and through the
trauma of all of that we've really
joined forces and wanting to change the
world and wanting to Advocate and
wanting to pass these bills that are
necessary for us to be protected and
it's taken a lot of time and a lot of
energy and she's doing a lot of the
groundwork like starting her foundation
don't shock me.org there's bills that we
are working on to pass there was a bill
called the robin Danielson act which was
named after a woman who died of toxic
shock syndrome in 1998 and that bill in
itself got rejected by Congress 10 times
and cut two
Don and I meeting with the congresswoman
Carolyn Maloney in New York a few years
ago
to try and get that bill reintroduced me
sitting with a congresswoman and having
the conversation about why is this still
happening and if that Bill had passed
this probably wouldn't have happened to
me and I had her speak to Dawn the woman
who lost her daughter because I'm like
listen to this woman
crying and screaming because she will
never get to hear her daughter's voice
again
see her daughter ever again because of
this
so it was just kind of getting this
congresswoman to like realize like
let's reintroduce this bill but there's
also so many things that we need to
re-introduce and also address within
Congress that has to change so her and I
have definitely joined forces and have
kind of been putting together new bills
and and
you know again it's it's going to take
time and it's not going to happen
overnight but it's definitely in motion
and alternatives
a lot of the Alternatives that women do
have they can still get TSS from
like the cup
but that that I've I've had women reach
out to me you know their husbands
writing me saying my wife of three kids
is fighting for her life right now in
the ICU
um from using a the cup or
um you know a lot of women want to say
like I'm using organic tampons it's like
okay you're using organic but it's still
sprayed with pesticides you're still
putting poison inside of you
what is the approach you would advise
um I think just being aware of what
you're putting inside of you being aware
of you know are you reading the box and
seeing that it has all these chemicals
and you know do you really want that to
be just being I guess more
just being more aware
not just thinking that it can't happen
to you because it can happen to anyone
at any time it's not about
anyone's off limits no one is off limits
that's the scary part
and
yeah I mean just just be more aware
educate yourself
that's the advice you would give if if a
if a young girl's listening to this now
and because I imagine this is a really
pressing question in there in the people
that are listening to this in their
minds is what should I do instead
well that's why I fight so hard is
because I need women to wake up and say
like well what is our alternative what
it what is what do we do but we're only
given what we're given and what we're
given is [__] and it's horrible and it
kills us
that's why I say it doesn't make sense
like If This Were happening to men there
would be a resolution tomorrow
because a lot of these companies
are male driven
there's a lot of men sitting in the
seats that are making these decisions or
have the power to but they don't even
know what it's like to have a period
they don't even know what it's like to
have a baby to have to make a decision
if they're going to keep it or not you
know it's not anyone's decision but that
don't their that own their person that's
going through it
I guess my question is about like
you still we've still got to use tampons
right so like you you've got you might I
can never and I don't
I can never use tampon ever again it
would kill me
it would kill you
yeah
Jim you mean literally or you mean
psychologically no I mean I would never
anyway but I'm just saying like that
literally almost killed me so why would
I ever want to you know have that thing
even in the same room as me you know
um yeah I can never nor would I ever
suggest anyone too
I mean I get it you have to but again
that sucks because those are the only
options we have
um even pads you know a lot of pads have
synthetic fibers as well
you know
um
the issue is there actually is nothing
safe for us that we can use and go
through today and be like oh
you know just doing life and there's no
worries it's like no you have to have
that consciously on your mind of like
oh yeah like this thing could kill me
but I have to use it because I I have
track today or I have to go swimming or
I have you know what I'm saying yeah
forgiveness this topic this word of
forgiveness what's your you know I was
thinking about what you said about the
the you wouldn't want to be in the same
room as that that thing because it
killed you because because it nearly
killed you
um
what do you think the answer is in terms
of like acceptance forgiveness where'd
you sit with there's this tremendous
Injustice that happens to you is the
answer trying to get to a place of
forgiveness for what happened is it
acceptance and what what is what is
where are you at with all of that
forgiveness for who
for the companies that know that they're
killing people no it's just greed
um
and
forgiveness I don't even know what I
would forgive other than
I don't even know if there is
forgiveness I think there's just anger
there's just this fight there's just
this unjust that sits within me to know
that when I see a little girl walking
down the street I see myself
and
I see her little feet I see her little
legs I see her whole spirit
and to know that that was me
you know and not ever wanting that to
ever happen to another soul
and I think that that's like just my
whole mindset of
there is always going to be unjust
within myself if I don't live my Truth
by fighting for what I believe is right
and what I believe is right is equality
and Safe products
you've done more than anyone I've ever
encountered as I said a second ago to
raise awareness for this
and I remember when my team back in
London they were sat around and they
were discussing you know we said we're
flying out to LA and Lauren's gonna be
on the podcast and
um Jemima who does a lot of she does she
leads the guest booking team she was
explaining to them
um what toxic
toxic shock syndrome is because none of
them had ever heard about it before
um and just just just to think about
that one isolated example that there's a
whole team there's a whole room full of
people in London now that know about it
because we're having this conversation
there's Millions tens and tens and tens
and tens of millions of people that have
watched you talk about this online
you have
done more than anyone I've ever
encountered to make put this on the
Public's radar and you continue to do
that and in doing so
it is very very obvious to see how you
will end up saving many many many many
many many people's lives you'll save
save them from harm you'll save their
lives entirely you'll save them from the
trauma that happens as a byproduct of
the horrible things that happen when
someone undergoes toxic shock syndrome
and I know because you've described your
faith that you are someone who
almost has an air of believing in
Destiny and purpose and and things about
you with it in mind all of the people
that you've helped and how you've put
this this conversation on the map would
you change anything
absolutely not
if you told me tomorrow that I could
wake up and have my life back I wouldn't
take it
because what I'm doing is like you said
it's fulfillment it's the fact that I
know that I'm doing something
that needs to be done I'm fighting for
life for people to be able to live their
lives to be able to you know like
go about their their days and live out
whatever it is they want to achieve
and know that it's you know
I don't know I just I feel like
that's my job
my job isn't done by any means
um you know and I and I'm I'm making a
documentary right now
or going to but
there was no reason why I should share
anything with anyone because I don't
need to
and it's horrific what I went through
and it's hard to even imagine but I can
be on a million covers I can do a
million interviews
you can see images and this that and the
other but unless you see me and you hear
me in that state
will you ever be able to put someone you
love
in that position to be like wow what is
going on why is this happening I never
want my daughter my sister my cousin my
wife you know to ever use a tampon again
do you know what I'm saying like someone
has to see me fighting for my life
to be able to put themselves in a
position to be protective
of of the ones they love and
I always say this too like I'm so lucky
that I look the way I do
right because again it matters
and I think that is too why I got so
much attention is because
I am what I look like and how did that
happen to her
why has this happened for
you know decades
so
yeah I think it's just it's my it's my
duty that I I feel in my heart that like
when I see a little girl
I need to be vulnerable to Showcase that
part of my journey in my life to remind
people of why I am the girl with the
golden likes
can't be easy
it can't but it but it is I mean in a
way it is it's because I'm okay with who
I am and where I've come and knowing
that that's part of what what allowed me
to be this person right now
you know and having to go through all of
that but even sitting here and having
this conversation with me where you have
to walk back down
the path of that trauma I mean the only
time I got emotional is when I speak
about my brother or my mom and killing
myself and them finding me I don't cry
about what happened to me
and maybe that's because I just
suppressed everything and and you know
it's this trauma that I haven't really
addressed but like
I know enough to know that like I'm okay
and like God's got me and God's always
had me and like I'm living proof of that
I'm living proof of
you know
there's there's someone definitely
directing my steps like I should not be
here and have what I have and have been
able to be above and beyond blessed that
I forget my trauma
I forget the darkness
because I have so much such a beautiful
life to live
if your work was to be done
if I if I sit here with you and I don't
know how many years time but if I sit
here with you in a couple of I know a
decade it could be it could be five
months and I and you you say
my job is done
in regards to toxic shock syndrome what
would you mean by that
meaning that we as women are protected
that we are
given things that are not going to kill
us for something that we inherently have
to do every month and and that's a basic
necessity for life you know I mean we
can't do anything without having
something that's gonna you know help us
get through our days to be able to be
the bosses that we are you know and and
hopefully
you know knocking down these doors and
and making people wake up and realize
like this is a huge problem and
hopefully
getting these companies or a company to
to make something to where we can go
about our lives and live just like
everyone else and not have to worry if
our tampon is going to kill us I think
that will
be the day where I can be like wow I
know that we're safe I know that
whatever happened to me will never
happen to somebody else ever again and I
think that's where the piece and maybe
just the
you know the breath of
I can relax and and
really just let that part of life go
because I know that my voice has been
heard and I know that change has been
done I don't know I just think the
purpose of it of of being able to leave
a legacy of like where you're actually
impacting something for people to say
for when you're not here that's where I
feel like that's where I want to be I
want to be in that like
that
changing the world factor of how either
people see themselves
and love themselves changing the fashion
industry changing you know feminine
hygiene products making sure that we're
all protected and safe and I think
that's so much bigger and if I can save
a life I mean that's bigger than
anything
that could be bigger than any
achievement you could ever imagine is
because a human life and what that
person is and what they could be to the
world is so much more than just a cover
or a
you know fancy car or it's like it's
it's so surface there's no fulfillment
what are those things going to do when
you die nothing
but you can die knowing that you've
changed the world that you've changed
someone's life for the better
and that to me is so powerful
we'll learn that is what you're doing um
I've never been so inspired by someone
um on this podcast ever and I don't
[__] people but like genuinely I've
never been so inspired because
there's so many things that um
you're doing as a result of speaking
that aren't necessarily the most obvious
benefits you're having obviously your
work to change the industry that harms
you
is going to change lives but the the
message of perseverance when it when
there's no light at the end of the
tunnel and to keep on going and to have
faith that
um there is a higher purpose there is a
reason to carry on I think there's so
many people around the world that are in
Dark Places and they can't see a reason
to continue
you know and
a lot of them listen to this podcast
because a lot of them message me and I
think even hearing how you manage to
take yourself from that place you used
time and you sat with all of the things
you felt and where you are now in your
life I think that alone will save a lot
of people's lives because there's so
many people honestly there's so many
people that are going to listen to this
that cannot see the light at the end of
the tunnel you are the light at the end
of the tunnel you know you being here
and doing what you're doing you are that
light
um you'll never get to see all the lives
you impact and change positively because
of that so on behalf of all those people
who I'm sure would love to message you
and tell you but I'll do it on their
behalf thank you so much you've really
really inspired me and you've inspired
me at a very profound deep level because
um you know it's easy
it's easy to go through life even
sometimes in the world I live in and
feel a sense of sadness or Injustice or
to to have have a huge amount of pity
for myself or whatever it might be you
know
um
and you're a constant reminder of the
choice that we have every day every time
we wake up so thank you yeah thank you
so much for having me giving me this
opportunity it's been so fun thank you
thank you thank you for blessing us um
we have a closing tradition on this
podcast where the last guest leaves a
question for the next guest not knowing
who they're going to leave the question
for and the question that's been left
for you
I've not read it all because it's a
little bit long but I'm going to start
assume you can visit yourself
on the day before you die brackets in
the far future I hope
what do you imagine that future version
of you
will tell
present day you
've done well
that you've set out to do what you've
chosen and wanted to do and you didn't
stop no matter how hard things got no
matter how many no's you got no matter
how big
the world got or
how high up that you couldn't see how
you were ever going to get past what was
in front of you but you did it and you
never gave up and you
you saw everything as a challenge
and hopefully in that moment I'll know
that I've changed lives saved lives
changed the world for the generations to
come and know that my work is done
and I think that's just pure beauty
I have no doubt Lauren thank you so much
thank you too thank you thank you
over the last few years I've realized
that my first Foundation is my health
something you've heard me talk about a
lot nothing matters more than that first
foundation so that is why I'm so excited
to be involved with a company like whoop
who are leading the charge when it comes
to bettering your health all my friends
have received free Loops from me because
once you've tried whoop I think it's
like lights turning on to your health
that's the only way I can describe it my
sleep my performance my recovery my
stress it's like someone turned the
lights on I'm sure you guys know but for
those that don't know what whoop is it's
a wearable health and fitness coach that
provides you with the feedback and
actionable insights into your sleep
recovery training stress and overall
health and I've become entirely utterly
obsessed with it if you know me well
enough you know how obsessed I am with
the smallest details I think the Small
Things compounded together produce the
biggest gains in our life and that is
exactly what woop does in my health and
fitness every single day being able to
see my one percent gains on woop has had
a profound impact on my health journey I
highly recommend you try it all you have
to do is search join.woop.com CEO to get
a three months whoop membership on me
and if you do send me a DM and let me
know how you get on I'd love I'd love
I'd love to know I'm someone that
understands probably from doing this
podcast the importance of having Greens
in my diet but do I achieve that every
week in the chaos of my life do I
achieve that sometimes the answer is no
with hills Daily Greens the probability
of me achieving that is now almost 100
because of its convenience and because
of the ease of preparing this one scoop
10 second Shake
and you're ready to go this is
the best product that he'll have
released in recent times many of you
will think of alternatives to this but I
I've tried those Alternatives and none
of them are as tasty as fuel's Daily
Greens it was out of stock because of
the demand it's now back in stock for
everybody in the USA right now it's not
available in the UK but when you get a
chance just try it that's all I'm gonna
say
just try it and I think once you try it
you'll understand why this is such an
essential part of my life right now and
we'll probably
become an essential part of yours
[Music]
thank you